the people that you meet in your
twenties rise up in their 30s earn great
positions of power in their 40s you
don't know when you're 20 in your 20s
who's gonna who's gonna make it and
who's not
so you know you treat everybody properly
and respectfully and you stay in touch
and very often those relationships merge
their heads years later decades later
everybody welcome to impact Theory our
goal with the showing company is to
introduce you to the people and ideas
that will help you actually execute on
your dreams all right today's guest is a
wildly successful entrepreneur with a
net worth measured in the hundreds of
millions of dollars but trying to
understand him by his financial success
would be to entirely miss the mark what
makes him fascinating isn't just that he
managed to turn a 900 on his SATs and no
formal business training into a business
empire this man's travel food and
beverage music and even sports it said
he has one of the most fascinating life
resumes on the planet here are just a
few of his highlights
he's a former MTV rapper who used to be
label mates with 80s hip-hop icons tone
loke and young MC and despite being
white he convinced said record label to
listen to his demo by first pretending
to be a well known black rapper he
co-founded and built the world's largest
private jet card company Marky jet with
no previous experience in aviation and
when he launched it
he got sales by hoarding muffins I'm not
kidding
he's rented an entire Mountain hired a
Navy SEAL to toughen him up turned his
failed career as a rapper into a
successful company writing theme songs
for sports franchises and now he's
actually a co-owner of an NBA franchise
himself he helped launch the coconut
water craze wauzeka which later he sold
the coca-cola and he's run 100 miles in
a single day
he's also climbed the vertical
equivalent of Mount Everest over a
weekend and actually summited the most
deadly mountain in the u.s. Mount
Washington in short this guy does not
take the easy road anywhere and he's
proven that fearlessness and tenacity
count for a lot more than experience or
family money so please help me in
welcoming the new york times
best-selling author of living with a
seal the man who introduced the world to
the legendary david Goggins
the author of the upcoming living with
monks Jessie its lair thank you my
pleasure that was an amazing intro your
life is crazy absolutely crazy and this
whole concept of the life resume you
really sucked me in and I I had written
an original draft of the intro where it
was my more typical like he does this
and then this and then this and I
thought that's really to miss the point
and so let me start over and really look
at it from that resume perspective right
and the crazy like broad stuff that
you've done almost always with the no
experience is really pretty incredible
when did you start thinking about that
well I realized that experience takes
too long I don't have enough time for
everything I want to do to get
experience no I just realized that I'm
an adrenaline junkie I love newness I
love challenges I mean that's what makes
me feel most alive and I discover that
early on when I was trying to get a
record deal and just getting rejection
and I didn't I had no connections my dad
owned the plumbing supply house in Long
Island where I grew up and we weren't
connected to the music world and I just
loved the thrill of trying to do what
everyone said I couldn't do mmm there's
no way you keep you know whenever all my
roommates in college were writing their
resumes and sending it out to all the
companies they're like why aren't you
writing your resume we're all like
typing our resume why are you working on
I'm like because I'm gonna get a record
deal and when they said no you can't it
just fueled me more to want to go out
and get it so in that moment and if you
can get people to understand this like
you will help so many people break
through because it is that moment where
people tell you that you can't do it and
you don't just thrash and say watch me
watch me you really go out and do it and
get really clever about it and so
there's two stories to me that parallel
there's the muffins story and how you
launched marki jet which I thought was
absolutely fascinating and then there
was how you talked your way into getting
the record company delicious final yeah
to listen to your demo sure so well the
Marquis Jet story you know my partner
and I were guests on a private jet when
I was 27 or 28 years old and when we
walked onto the airplane it was like the
scene in The Wizard of Oz when
everything goes from black and white to
color like people fly like
this is unbelievable I want to fly like
this and went by the time we landed or
like let's start a private jet company
you know like definitely you know so we
could fly privately except we had no
airplanes so we went to a company called
NetJets
owned by Warren Buffett the 800-pound
gorilla they had 600 plus airplanes in
the fleet and pitched this idea for a
25-hour prepaid jet cart which was
called marquee jet how'd you get that
interview like that time with him it's a
crazy story you know I had a friend of
mine who called me up and prior to that
I was putting experiences together for
wealthy people like impossible to get
experiences and a friend of mine called
me up and said that he had a friend
whose daughter was turning 16 and he
wanted to do something at the christina
aguillera concert and I happened to have
a relationship with the management
company and I got his daughter on it's
kind of like a backup singer kind of
thing with the mic off and the guy
called me up after the concert like the
next day she was the star of the town
you know everyone was talking about it
and he was like I have no idea who you
are or what you do but if you ever need
anything call me like that was amazing
what you did for my daughter and it
turns out he was the president of this
company called NetJets
that owned all these airplanes so a year
later when we had this idea I was like I
think I know someone in this business
feel like the guy that we had sing his
daughter sang at the aguillera concert
and that's how we got the meeting Wow
but the meeting actually when we pitched
the idea the meeting lasted 12 minutes
and they threw us out and the president
of NetJets said and this is almost a
direct quote he said you know cool idea
but if you think we're gonna give to
kids that didn't break a thousand around
their SAT which Tom pissed me off I got
like a 980 but I've convinced myself
I've gotten over you like keep telling
yourself you broke a thousand he's like
I'm never giving you guys access to our
our airplanes because the the notion was
if we could sell and market on to their
fleet through this twenty five hour
program called marquee jet that's how we
would piggyback off their airplanes and
they'd throw us out of the meeting and
then we were relentless and we came back
and we we realized that we couldn't sell
this concept through a PowerPoint
because they'd seen they see a thousand
powerpoints
so we literally brought our own focus
group in to bring the meeting to life
and one by one the guys stood up
we had Carl banks from the New York
Giants and run from Run DMC and a
powerful real estate mogul and they
explained that they would never buy a
fraction what netjet was selling but
they would buy a 25 hour card if it was
offered and and that's how we ended up
solidifying the opportunity and then to
your point when we started the company
you know this is back in 2000 so there
was I had no sophisticated way to get
leads I didn't know a lot of wealthy
people and the only way that I could
really build my database or sell anybody
was to go to events where rich people
hung out so I heard about this
conference called the Ted I didn't even
know what it was in Monterey California
so I flew commercial you know
transferred three flights the drove six
hours when I landed to get to Ted to try
to pitch this idea to anyone that would
listen but when I got to the TED
conference it was like Fort Knox
everybody had credentials double
credentials and I had nothing and they
won't let me anywhere near the venue so
I went to the local coffee shop and just
trying to figure out how I'm gonna get
in or sneak in or get someone to get me
in and get access and I realized like
every hour to everyone with credentials
was walking into the coffee shop and
they were buying lattes and muffins and
lattes and muffins and lattes and
muffins so the next morning I woke up at
at 5 o'clock and I went to the coffee
shop and I bought every single muffin
that they had I took all the inventory
out of the shop I'm like I think all
your muffins they gave me like 80
muffins and I was sitting and then when
the first wave of TED attendees you know
broke for their break and they came one
of the customers said um you know can I
have a latte and a muffin and the guy
said well I give you a lot see but we're
all out of muffins and when he was
walking out I said excuse me sir you
know look I I happen to have an extra my
fenves actually eight hundred of them
you know but if you want a muffin you
can have one of my muffins it's like get
out of here so dollars I realized we
starts but what do you do what are you
doing in we started having a
conversation and he said you know do you
mind if I join you and ice you know my
only thought was like you are qualified
to buy a card you can
join me and he was my first cell he was
my first cell a guy who owned a company
that sold it to eBay and that was the
start of the adrenaline rush of okay let
me try to crack this code of you know
how we can build this thing with um not
a big database how do you teach somebody
to look for those opportunities to
create those opportunities because
everyone's gonna hear the no but
99.99999% of people just accept it I
think it's different I think when you're
young the consequences don't matter as
much you know you're just thinking about
the end result it's a little bit
different now I have four children and I
don't think I could take the risk
necessarily that I did when I was 21 and
living check to check but at that point
the consequences didn't matter if I had
to get thrown out of the TED conference
or whatever it it didn't really matter I
would just try again but it's always
been having for me it's been and
probably similar to you when you started
your business but it's always having the
end of the movie in my head and then
filling in the script so I knew I was
gonna leave there with a sale I just had
to write the script and the script might
change there might be you know call
inaudible and you have to rewrite the
script but the end of the script was
always the same I'm gonna run a hundred
miles okay well how you gonna do that
Jesse you know like you've never you're
not like a crazy endurance runner
well then let's think backwards how you
know but it starts with the end scene in
the movie even the exit you know like
okay we're gonna build this to sell I
don't know who I'm gonna sell it to but
that sort of been always kind of the
mentality and I think the second point
to that is once you get over the fear of
being embarrassed you know
no one likes to be embarrassed but once
you get over being scared of being
embarrassed it's super liberating and it
allows you to go into lanes that you
otherwise you wouldn't go into and
everybody is wired differently you know
everybody is wired completely different
it's hard to rewire someone to take to
be you know comfortable taking risk
comfortable with being embarrassed and I
think it comes from having a lot of egg
on your face and learning along the way
you've talked about I like to get my
foot in the door and then I'll figure
the rest later how have you not let I
don't know what I'm doing stop you it
takes a long time you know that it's a
fast world there's a build into that
learning curve for me 980 it takes a lot
of time and I just never had that time
um so I've always been like let me get
my foot in the door and I will figure it
out I will hire people that can help me
figure it out I can go to experts to
help me but they usually won't help me
get in the door so let me take the first
step and then once you have momentum you
can ride the momentum so that's always
been my mo you know it's always been in
everything you mentioned living with the
steel
you know when Goggins came all that
stuff it's just been like welcoming the
unknown and being open to whatever comes
of it and learning from it so let's talk
about then the networking that you've
done because the the amount of places
you've been able to get your foot in the
door are pretty impressive have you done
things strategically knowing like this
is gonna help me meet people that could
potentially one day open the door for me
somewhere yeah I mean well networking
has been a big part of my life forever
when I was 24 years old I wrote 10
letters a day thank you notes to anyone
that came into my life that impacted me
and it could be even if I didn't know
you but I saw your show and I was like
you know what time you've had some
amazing guests I've really benefited
from I would just write you a
handwritten note because one the
handwritten note shows intent you have
to buy the envelope by the stationery
write the letter lick the envelope get
the stamp put it in the minute that's
all a lot different than hitting send
it's also memorable how many handwritten
letters have you gotten this year so I I
literally wrote 3,000 letters in one
year and it could be to a doorman cab
drive it could be anyone I would just
get their car and I would thank them
that was my form of networking the even
to this day I have a hot 50 list that I
of 50 people that can help me that I
want to stay in touch with that I make
sure every quarter so I send them a note
and I oh they always comment on it you
know like thank you so much
dick it's not I'm not just writing it to
write it I mean they have to really have
had an impact on me and I and it's a
meaningful note it makes me feel great
and it makes the recipient feel attached
to me in a different way
you know in early age I understood the
importance of that the people that you
meet in your 20s rise up in their 30s or
in great positions of power in their 40s
you don't know when you're 20 in your
20s who's gonna who's gonna make it and
who's not so you know you treat
everybody properly and respectfully and
you stay in touch and very often those
relationships merge their heads years
later decades later that's really
incredible
one thing that I find really fascinating
and super effective about your
personality is you'll capitalize and
move quickly on serendipity
so this audience knows David Goggins
very well I was a phenomenal guest on
the show but what I love in your story
is you see him running next to you you
see that moment that's really become a
core part of his story where he's got
the broken feet but he still runs the
remaining thirty miles
but you reach out to him afterwards and
actually make something of that what was
that process like for you and why is
that a thing for you to really you see
something you move on it yeah I think
well with Goggins yeah this was his
first hundred mile er and I was doing
his a really race so I was doing with
five friends he had no one to really
with like he was his only friend at the
race and he was his own team and
immediately I was drawn to him because
you know he was a super he was heavyset
at the time really muscular and I was
thinking like how's a guy that weighs
this much gonna run his goal was 100
miles you know and he had no supplies he
knows it was a self-supporting ready to
bring lawyers to own supplies I just
sold my company to Warren Buffett I had
like way over did our surprise either
masseuses and a Whole Foods truck pulled
up you know and like Goggins had a glass
of water a box of crackers and like you
know a chair at Mile 70 he went through
this he had crushed his feet you know he
broke several bones or and I watched him
get up and continue on and I was like
what the is going on here and when
I was done I'm like I got to meet this
guy because and know at this time
he was relatively unknown you know and
this is 2007 six or seven I think
something like that and I wanted to meet
him because whatever drive whatever got
him off the chair and said I want to
keep running if I could teach that to my
kids or to my employees or to myself
like I want that secret sauce and
initially you know I went out because I
saw a lot of star power in them I saw
just a whole just different world
you know we represented something I've
never really seen before and I realized
that I wasn't gonna get that secret
sauce through a friendship or at a lunch
meeting or this and that and I asked him
to come you know would you come live
with me and basically said uh if you're
crazy enough to ask a guy like me to
come I'm crazy enough to
come and came came to my house that's
awesome I love that is that something
that you do with frequency to you'll see
something be curious be interested and
do more than just the you know the
casual hey it's nice to meet you it is I
mean if I snot if I find someone that's
inspiring or an event or something I try
to introduce he she or it to my life and
that's part of just my own personal
development you know I learned better
through experience than through books I
like to be challenged and I love
interesting people I like people that
are think differently that act
differently that's what attracts me
that's just what makes me feel like I'm
getting the most out of life you know
and that is I'm on the constant search
for that because I'm very aware of my
own mortality you know I'm 50 years old
I'm turning 50 and the average American
lives to be 78 and if that were the case
and I was average that means I got 28
years left and that dictates well who do
I want to spend that time with and what
do I want to do and that's a driving you
know it's like on repeat in my head so
to answer your question you know that's
that's sort of what makes me tick and
you've got a pretty deep obsession with
that at one point I think you were
writing the number of days you had on
your wrist or something like I stopped
doing that why did you stop I'm curious
I'm just so aware of it now you know
[Music]
it was starting to freak my wife out a
little bit it's a little depressing but
for me it's not depressing mmm it's like
you know I think people's relationship
with time we talk about relationships
with humans how's your relationship with
your kids how your relationship with
your wife we you know your dad or your
parents but we never talk about a
relationship with money and time and the
relation to your relationship with time
is such a key component of your life
because when you get caught in a routine
time goes so quickly when you understand
that there are maybe only 28 summers
left and if you want to truly you know
get as much out of experientially out of
life it just creates a tremendous amount
of urgency so and the fear goes away
because you're like Shipman nobody on
the planet like everybody no one's gonna
be here in a hundred years do I care
what he thinks it like he's not if we're
not gonna be here in a hundred years so
why would I take the chance and it's
just I don't know it's just so I stopped
writing it because I'm so aware of it
there's not a day that goes by when my
head hits the pillow where I don't say
to myself like you know did I maximize
the day and am i and you know am i aware
of my mortality and it might sound
depressing but it's it's not for me it's
it's thrilling it's thrilling that does
not sound depressing to me at all I
think I'm utterly fascinated by people
that are really trying to get the most
out of their life humanly possible and
knowing that you're one of those people
the obvious question to me becomes why
are you so obsessed with doing the hard
things like if you know you only have 28
summers as you said why are we doing
polar plunges running a hundred miles
like what is it about that drive to
encounter not only the novel but the
incredibly difficult I mean I think easy
is boring isn't is an easy answer to
that I think that it goes to your point
of building your life resume you know we
spend we invest so much time in our work
resume which is important but I think
it's equally if not more important to
build your life resume because that's
really an indication of who you are and
what you're becoming and that's really a
true look into your true body of work
how is your obsession with time and I
guess anything else that led you to do
what you did with the monks so what did
you do well what drove you to do it what
were some key takeaways so I lived on a
monastery with eight months for which
have been there for 50 years and 50
years and I went there for 15 days I
think you know the obvious takeaways
were just the simplicity of how the
monks live is something I think everyone
can benefit from I realized immediately
you know already what you're gonna miss
you're gonna miss your family and your
kids and your friends and some of the
comforts you know I don't want to give
away some of the comforts that I had but
you also realized that how much at least
I did in my daily life how much time I
spend and worry I spend on things that
are irrelevant and when I release when I
release that I got so insanely creative
and said so much energy because like
thoughts worry all that it's exhausting
I don't know when I cut mine I came home
I said to my wife we were doing carpool
with our kids and she was gonna take you
know with two cards and she's like I
think I'll take the blue car I'm like
cool and then she came wreckage to I'm
gonna take the silver car I'm like okay
sweetie take the silver card then she
came back 30 seconds later she's like
you know what I want to be able to park
it I'm gonna take the blue card I'm like
great
take the blue and then I was like you
know what your energy you just used on
something that's like complete but it
happens all day long and you don't even
realize how much energy you use unlike
at the monastery all the decisions are
taken away so what you eat you eat
whatever they give you what you wear
nobody can changed once I took one
shower
it just was super freeing so I left
there incredibly energized and and I
surrendered a lot of things in my life
that just I didn't realize you know our
time zappers and that might sound
obvious you know like oh you went to a
monastery and you realized but it wasn't
about meditation it wasn't about really
religion or spirituality it was just
about simplifying and prioritizing and
realizing like what's I already know
what
important to me but realizing like to
eliminate some of the things that really
aren't important to me and taking away
those precious hours what I found really
interesting about the book and by the
way the structure of the book is
phenomenal the way that you invite us in
to you having trouble writing the book
and that we're experiencing with you the
meeting where you have to explain I
haven't written the book and it's
supposed to be done and and then as
you're reading you're like wait I'm
actually already in the book so it was
like this sort of adaptation if you ever
saw that movie yeah really really
interesting and I'll just assume this
was intentional but the very structure
of the book had that same sense of
dropping inside of your mind that I
imagine is exactly what happens when you
go to a monastery and there are no
distractions and suddenly it becomes
about what I'm learning about myself and
I could I don't think you ever actually
said it in the book if I remember right
but the the sense was that the struggle
in writing the book came from I was
looking for the universals that were so
present in living with a seal and I
found only myself in that and so how do
I pull forth the the universals by
telling these incredible stories and
that was really really cool and one of
my favorite stories was mr. Sara Blakely
and it it's just a really cool story
walk people through that because it got
to the heart of something that I think a
lot of people struggle with and your
ability to both be the top dog in a
scenario and to be a cheerleader is is
pretty remarkable
so tell that story if you don't mind
well I mean up to that point I'll get to
the end first it's a key component of
marriage is sharing each other's
successes and rooting for each other and
when the star shines on someone you
celebrate it and then the other person
you know they your partner celebrates it
and and being on the same page and and
for a guy that could be difficult if
you're married to a gal that's an you
know that that has a light shining on
them but I was at a restaurant and my
wife was running late I was with my
trainer
the mind and they were putting me on the
spot with this one but there was a girl
at the other table attractive girl who I
thought which was kind of like looking
over the table cuz she was kind of
staring at me and it was a little
uncomfortable I told my friend like you
know I think this girl's like checking
me out
I don't think I don't know I'm not sure
for like will you look over there and
see if she's looking at me and he looked
over and she's like she's checking you
out and you know we started laughing
about it and and and then she came over
to me it's super attractive girl and I
thought she was gonna say like can I
join you or whatever and then she said
are you Sarah Blakely's husband and he
you know he laughed and this and that
and I said I am Sarah Blake we sighs me
she said I'm a huge fan of your wife you
know like hoping was about Sarah and I
thought the whole thing was about was
about me and I write about that in the
book you know um but that that's what
happened and it was uh it's a funny
moment you know but I was I'm so proud
of my wife you know and I'm her biggest
cheerleader and that's part of my job as
a husband is to support it through the
ups and there's a little not gonna with
a lot of ups but also plenty of downs
you know being an entrepreneur and is
lonely you know you went through the
journey man it's lonely and nobody
worries about it when you're the founder
like you worry about it and you can give
out shares and compensation of this and
that but you know it's Tom's bar man you
know and so there are times where you
have to be super supportive and
understanding and being an entrepreneur
I'm very aware of that so I think it's a
good it's a good fit so another thing
you talked about in the book was that
you actually in the early days of your
marriage you guys would argue a lot
because Sarah would ask you you know
what are you feeling and you say I don't
know and she finally had this epiphany
where it's like he really doesn't know
what he's feeling
yeah and what has it been like for you
to learn to really be introspective and
to understand your feelings cos at least
from the outside and especially having
read the book it feels like you've
gotten to a place where you're very in
tune with yourself with your intuition
which is another thing we should talk
about but like what was that process
like yeah I mean Sara would ask me for
years she'd be like you know little
sweetie how does that make you feel and
I would say I don't know and she say
well you know something would happen
like a big event was like well what are
you feeling and I'd be like I really
don't know you know and I really didn't
know and she would get angry at me she
like what do you mean you don't know I'm
like I don't know I'm like you know I
don't know what's going on the hawk game
you know like I would just deflect it
and she finally realized like I really
don't know and maybe that was a defense
mechanism for me I don't know and I like
to stay super happy you know and upbeat
and and blow away some emotions that may
be but through this journey through the
monastery and through Sara's like really
big into talking emotions playing you
know she we we've ollie she always says
like she'll hit the ball and I won't hit
it back and but now we're volleying a
little bit more and but it's a work in
progress for me you know my form of
communication has been running an hour a
Devlin in the last 25 years I've ran
36,000 miles you know I ran what 10,000
hours or something you know alone
basically alone and that's been my
meditation and that's been my release
and that's been my emotional you know
it's been my creative process it's been
my physical well-being it's been my you
know my own form of meditation and it's
been my release and that's it I'm good
she doesn't do that so you know I've had
to work through some of that the the
book was really fun in and for anybody
that's ever thought oh I must just be
bad at meditation the part where you try
to meditate when you first got there and
you're like I you know I've got my
trends in dental meditation I've been
given my word I can't reveal what my
word is but it sounds like a sushi
restaurant and I really wish I had some
sushi right now right and I thought that
was fantastic for people that think
there's like some big mystical moment
you if I remember right you were like I
was waiting for somebody to say let
there be light yeah and so if that
moment never comes what is it that does
come from being by yourself for that
long
well just to just to play onto into that
story when I first got to the monastery
I you know I went to a room that was
of where we are and I had a bed and a
light and a desk and brother Christopher
them was like you know my go to monk at
the in the experience said to me when we
start tomorrow at 7:00 a.m. we will
start with prayer reflection and
meditation and I was like great its 6:50
p.m. what do I do for the next 12 hours
and he said think so I said okay you
know I just got there I said let me try
to meditate so I had taken a
transcendental meditation crash course
years ago and had a mantra so I set my
timer for 20 minutes as instructed and
closed my eyes and you know immediately
got bombarded with all the thoughts that
would you know how are my kids what's
going on at work all this stuff and I
was like why hasn't the timer dinged
I've been here forever let me check and
see if I actually said it and I know
that would be cheating so I continued on
with this bombardment of thoughts and
then after what felt like an hour I'm
like this is crazy I'll be here all
night let me set the timer and I went to
set the timer and I looked at I'm like 3
minutes and 27 seconds and I was like
I'm I'm here for 15 days you know
and that was my first hour at the
monastery and I felt really alone and
you know like I felt like I was on
Gilligan's Island and usually like you
call your wife or you send an email I
couldn't do anything I just sit there
and be like you know and I started
calculating how many minutes I have left
here and it started really with
me you know I was like what and by day 2
or 3 I was really flipped out I was
homesick
I was bored out of my ass I was like
where the one of the lessons is gonna
hit me like just give me the luck give
me the cliff note version of this but I
realized like anything else in life
there is no cliff note version the only
way for me to get this is to stick it
out for the entire 15 days and until I
made that mental because in the back of
my head I was already I was already
convincing myself about 70 is enough
who's gonna care if I'm gonna modulate
for 7 days or 15 days the books gonna be
the same you know and I was giving
myself and out once I flipped it and
like made the commitment that like no
man you're here you're in this for the
duration I eased into it I started like
appreciating the routines of the monks
what they were doing the lessons became
more vivid and it became a picture for
real life like you don't cut corners and
you make a commitment and you know
you're gonna have to tough it out and
the lessons are usually in the last you
know like most people do 95% the same
but the last five percent sure
experienced it a quest at times like is
where 99% of the people quit but it's
the 5% with the extra five the last 5%
when you hit the wall and you finish the
marathon where the growth is not the
first 18 miles so I realized and once I
made that shift the whole experience
changed for me you said being around a
master of a craft is always enlightening
and monks there were master dog trainers
they were very surprising
what what were your takeaways from that
I thought a monastery would just be all
prayer reflection meditation and a meal
a day or something but a huge part of it
is manual labor because they have to
keep the lights on and the monastery
that I went to which was not it was not
Buddhist it was Russian Orthodox they
were the largest breeders of German
shepherds in this country and I remember
the first day I was my job the first day
was to be a distractor so they were
training one of the dogs and I had to
like run in front of the dog and you
know try to like get him off of his game
to simulate traffic in the city or
distractions and the goal is to have the
dog be able to walk unblemished no
matter what you throw at him and I was
going cribs running at him I was like
you know doing the fart trick all that
stuff and the dog didn't waver it just
walked from point A to point B and one
of the monks that was training the dog
said to me it's no different than life
you know it's like giving me all this
like you know wax on wax off but he
was saying you know you're gonna get
distracted from your goals and all these
things like arrows are gonna come at you
all the time but the same way this dog
goes from point A to point B
there's a porkchop there whatever your
goal is you got to get the point you
have to get there even though people are
gonna say you can't do it even though
people are gonna throw different
opportunities you know you know I'm sure
your friends went out a million times
the happy hour when you to stay late
when you were starting your business I
mean I was in the same situation those
are the distractions that come at you
but to get to your goal you can't go to
happy hour every night you have to
return emails and you have to check the
manufacturer and you have to check the
inventory and you have two big sales
calls so I was getting these lessons but
being around the best at what they do it
was just impossible to not have an
appreciation and respect that's really
interesting and I think that a lot of
times humans respond the same way when
you meet somebody that's really just
centered for lack of a better word
they're not being distracted they know
what they want they're going after
there's just an ease a calmness about
them which is really infectious I'm
drawn to it yeah so going back to the
arrows that you were talking about how
in your life have you stayed the course
how have you stayed focused when you had
and maybe this goes to your why you know
what was it that allowed you to keep
going when your friends were going out
to happy hour well I think like
everybody I feel overwhelmed a lot still
even though I'm older now and I've had
some success and failure but I still
have a lot of arrows that come at me all
the time
requests for my time challenges at work
challenges raising kids being in a
marriage you know is not easy I mean we
have a great marriage but it's not easy
work
and it's overwhelming so for me I think
part of it is always having something
big on my calendar that I can look
forward to every every other month I try
to put something on my calendar for a
weekend that I can really look forward
to so it helps me get through the tough
times and I like to have one at least
one really big challenge a year that
kind of centers me and keeps me honest
it keeps me honest and that's really
helpful for me and then the other thing
that I do that really helps is I have a
journal and I just take everything
that's on my head
and Iraqi pit in a master Journal
doesn't mean I'm gonna get to it doesn't
mean it goes away but it gets out of my
head and it goes somewhere else to free
up space in my head and then I'll just
work it off or I'll prioritize it from
the master list but just the act of
taking all the stuff that's in your head
putting it on paper in one place where
it liz is like really freeing and
energizing so you talked a lot in the
book about finding your why did you find
a why my family is so important to me
have four kids under 8 and so my why
stares at me in the face every day
but for me going back to what you said
at the opening of the show we touched
upon it it's my life resume you know
it's um helping people is important to
me and you know I feel great being able
to help people in any way I love people
so I like that's a big part of my life
but my own personal resume is sort of my
why I just said to my wife as I turned
50 like let's have a big I'll have a big
celebration this is a monumental
birthday and it's really affecting me
how I think you know it's like I didn't
think it would but turning 50 is having
a big impact on me and I said when I was
25 I had a big party in New York City
where I was living and I want to kind of
replicate that and she said wow honey
you know think about all the things that
you've accomplished in the last 25 years
and I'm like I appreciate it but
compared to I haven't done anything
compared to what I the potential and
what I want to do you know and she said
well then think about the things that
you love to do over those over the last
25 years what are the things that you
love to do and who have you loved to do
them with and for me it's been the races
the travel that this and the match civil
look put as much of that on your plate
as you can with the people that you love
to do it with in the next 25 years your
life and that's sort of my mission
statement so how is turning 50 affecting
the way you think I'm super curious just
realizing that like it went so fast and
realizing that there's so much that I
want to do and being away
that your 70s are a different decade
than your 40s and 50s well then you have
20 years left and when you really put it
in perspective of how many weekends
there are you know there's only 52
weekends and you start to look at it
like that you're like I'm gonna be 80 in
30 years scary you know I got kids it's
scary because there's a lot I want to do
I feel like I don't learn anything
compared to what I what I want to do and
the opportunities so you know it just
how do you manage your time I never
thought like that I'm formally live
forever and I'm you know I'm bulletproof
and all that stuff and I'm not and when
you turn 50 happens
friends get sick you know let me give
you an example of just how it's affected
me and how even the monastery in this
whole notion of time which we've been
talking and the more this conversation
but like your parents like yeah how old
are your parents no matter 70 okay and
where do they live in different parts of
Washington State okay did you see him
yeah pretty often once to three times a
year okay so let's say they lived to be
78 which is the I hope they don't but
let's say that they live to the average
age so you see them one you said once to
three times yeah okay
no you don't it means you're gonna see
them 60 if you see them twice here you
can see them 16 more times when you look
at it that way you're like what you
don't have eight years with them you
have sixteen times with them oh and
that's the shift in my life and that's
the way I look at things that's a
fundamental shift in the way that I
looked at situations six months ago and
it's created urgency it's created a need
to just like not put stuff off and to
recognize like what's on your list of
things that you want to do yeah man
that's that's really interesting and the
concept of urgency to me has been one of
the driving forces in my life is the
ability to create urgency even when it
wasn't age and I felt like I was gonna
live forever
that was still a huge driver for me I
need to
this right now and that's been one of
the things that's really served me as an
entrepreneur what advice do you have for
you know the the young upstart whether
they're young and age or just new and in
terms of going after something for the
first time what advice do you have for
them like urgency to actually help them
get across the finish line and and
manifest their dreams not just dream but
really make them come true I think the
first thing is like any goal is is
attaching yourself to something that you
love to do and we've heard that many
times but we often neglect it because
there's an opportunity maybe there's
more money but like it takes a long time
to build a brand or accumulate wealth or
we hear of these get-rich-quick things
and they happen but they're not the norm
it takes time so if you're not doing
something over that time and also you
lost your 20s and your 30s you never get
them back so I think you want a first
step is to attack yourself the passion
has to be to something you know that you
like I think if you're an entrepreneur
you have to understand the passion is
around the process as well as the
product and what you're doing people
often neglect the process but you can't
shortcut it and if that's what you're
signed up for you have to respect it
what do you think about risk and taking
real chances I'm a big I'm a big risk
taker in general but not I'm not a
thrill seeker so I'm gonna I'm an
adrenalin guy I'm an endurance guy but I
don't go on rollercoasters I don't like
I'm not jumping out of airplanes but the
bigger the risk the bigger the reward
it's for the interesting men in your
life has certainly proof that there are
some big rewards for taking risks all
right before I asked my last question
tell these guys where they can find you
online so on Instagram and all the
social media cool and final question
what's the impact that you want to have
on the world I just I mean it's
person-to-person
it's person-to-person you know the world
gets small your world that's a big world
but our worlds are small
you're gonna leave all this and you go
to a very small world as do I so I want
to just positively impact the
people that are close to me in a way
that will carry on you know for as long
as it can yeah
Jesse thank you so much for being on the
show inaudible all right guys this whole
notion of a life resume is absolutely
captured me I think it's really really
fascinating in his new book living with
monks you were going to love it
literally you feel like you're tumbling
down inside his mind if you've ever seen
the movie adaptation that is exactly
what this feels like it opens with him
confessing to his literary agent that he
hasn't written the book that he was
supposed to be done with by now and then
confessing that he kept a journal and
then you sort of tumble headlong into
the journal with the person that his
agent and then the stories that he
shares in the exploration that he's
going on I mean it's just really this
fascinating look at one single
individuals reaction to having their
world shut down from a distraction
standpoint and the book itself becomes
this like meditative practice in and of
itself in that you see the universals
you see yourself in him as he's going
through this and it is really incredible
he has such a unique way of experiencing
something and bringing it back to people
in a way that's useful and it's even
self reflexive in the book how he talks
about that how there's so many things
you can't learn just from reading that
ultimately they have to go out and
experience it and the punchline of the
book in the end is he said he wants
everyone to build a life resume to go to
the website and to pledge what it is
you're gonna do and then actually take
action which is why I'm so excited to
get him on the show you guys know my
absolute obsession is actually getting
people to go out and act to do something
what this man is done with his life is
beyond astonishing every time he hits a
note to find some amazing creative
hilarious and ultimately effective way
to get to the other side it is something
that I hope you guys all hear in his
story this is not a tale of somebody who
leveraged family money to make it even
bigger this is somebody who started with
nothing and built an absolutely massive
empire not once not twice three and four
and five times it is absolutely
astonishing its repeatable it's
something you can learn from so dive
into his world all right if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary
take care
everybody thank you so much for watching
and being a part of this community if
you haven't already be sure to subscribe
you're gonna get weekly videos on
building a growth mindset cultivating
grit and unlocking your full potential